{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red25\green25\blue25;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c9804\c9804\c9804;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs19 \cf2 A model is the way you set up a problem for investigation. . . .\
Actually, when someone says \'93scientific model\'94 to me, you have to\
get away from thinking of it as just a geometrical model or a visual\
model, because there aremany other sorts of models. You can actually\
have a model as a set of statements.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs18 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs19 \cf2 My understanding of a model is a formal statement of a hypothesis\
designed to be tested.\
\
I think a model is a way of summarizing all important fundamentals\
that go into describing a natural phenomenon, that you have obtained\
observations of. And it contains a number of assumptions\
stating what you want to be concerned with modeling, and requires\
you to input data from the real world that will predict the observations\
you have designed it to predict.\
\
So the real world does what it does and the model is some simplified\
representation of part of it in one form or another, and in my case\
generally in the form of equations.\
\
It will be mathematical; it will have elements within it which have\
some correspondence with the elements of reality, and the relationship\
between the elements in your model should be such that when\
you put it together and allow . . . the consequences of the mathematical\
structure to follow through, it should have an ongoing correspondence\
with a large number of facts which correspond to\
experiments, which weren\'92t immediately within the fact which you\
first put down as the elements of the model.\
\
A model in science generally is a means of depicting on paper or\
in terms of hardware what is something at the molecular reality. . . .\
Any representation of what is going on at the molecular scale by\
definition must be a model, because it can\'92t be the real thing. Any\
representation whatsoever, be it of a simple structural formula, a\
steric formula, a confirmational formula, . . . a formula of showing\
all kinds of things getting together and rearranging and reacting,\
all of that, is a model.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs19 \cf2 Generally I would consider a model a simplification of the system,\
incorporating what you consider to be the most important elements\
of that system. So you are describing the system, but you are not describing\
it in all of its detail.\
\
I tend to reserve the word model for something that is not the\
best theory we have of something, but for which you are deliberately\
making approximations.\
\
So I see a model as really trying . . . to identify the essence of the\
observations that you are trying to explain, as simply as possible.\
\
The scientific model is something which captures enough of that\
reality to give maybe not a quantitative description of reality, but at\
least a qualitative description of what\'92s going on. But in order to\
achieve this it has to throw away some parts. . . . But a well-designed\
model will encapsulate the essence.\
\
What determines an exclusion is either ignorance or a deliberate\
deselection as being irrelevant or problematic or simply impractical.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs18 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs19 \cf2 So, what we now see, the kind of models which I apply are understood\
to have restricted validity within nuclear physics as a whole\
because there are certain regimes where those models do not apply.\
So there are many things which are left out and, of course, one\
could say in a holistic calculation you got to put them all in. But you\
can get some indication of the validity of those approximations by\
putting particular things in one at a time.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs19 \cf2 You\'92ll need different models to describe different things and different\
aspects of reality.\
\
And indeed, nuclear physicists themselves recognize a hierarchy of\
these models. They recognize how some are related to others, and so\
on. So they are not under the illusion that all those models are equally\
valid and equally useful. They have different functions, different\
purposes, different limitations.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs19 \cf2 Models clearly must have some relationship to empirical data or\
they wouldn\'92t be models.\
\
I wouldn\'92t be comparing my models precisely with the features in\
the data. I\'92d be comparing very broad brush.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs18 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs19 \cf2 A model may not hold up to subsequent observations, but for the\
information you have currently available, it\'92s the best model around.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs19 \cf2 From my own personal perspective, and nomore than that\'97I\'92mnot\
going to say that I\'92m right or wrong, I\'92m simply saying it\'92s my taste\
\'97I prefer to be able . . . to test whether a model is right or not.\
\
For me, a model is effectively a formal statement of a hypothesis\
which is designed to be tested. A hypothesis may be a generalized\
idea about the operation of some process or some historical pattern,\
but in order to test that you need to have a precise statement of\
what that process consists of and what its effects are likely to be in\
given circumstances. And I suppose I would see a model as being\
that formal statement which is the step prior to testing. The function\
of a model is to be tested.\
\
And a model is good insofar as it provides results which agree with\
experiment. . . . Models are successful if these predictions turn out\
to be correct.\
\
You allow the mathematics to work itself out and this should provide\
an ongoing correspondence of a wider range of contacts with\
reality than were within it at the time when you set it down.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs18 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs19 \cf2 You\'92ve got some plausible models which comforts you because you\
can think, well, this is not a total mystery to me; I can imagine what\
might be going on here. I don\'92t actually know what\'92s going on here,\
but this is all right, we got some ideas.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs19 \cf2 So sometimes getting, I suppose, a possible match to reality is not\
everything.What you are looking for is an understanding of what\'92s\
happening in nature, and sometimes a simple model can give you\
that, whereas a very large computer program can\'92t.\
\
Models act as a medium for thinking about scientific problems.\
A model is an aid to understanding and an aid to thought.\
Barrie Jones, physicist and planetary astronomer\
You get new insight at different levels into the ways in which\
the nature is working.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs19 \cf2 I think the word \'93modeling\'94 is much more used now amongst theorists,\
amongst physicists, amongst mathematicians, than it used\
to be. So I think there is a much greater consciousness of modeling\
than was the case when I first started in physics, and certainly in\
generations before.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs18 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs19 \cf2 I feel the most exciting thing in science is building the model, the\
idea of building it, rather than taking somebody else\'92s computer\
code, say, and then adapting it. This doesn\'92t really interest me on a\
personal level, it doesn\'92t stimulate me to do that.\
\
I spend my life doing models.\
\
I guess, somewhat reluctantly, I would take the view that physicists\
are almost entirely concerned with the process of modeling, that\
what they do, certainly in theoretical physics, is to try and form\
mathematical models that represent large or small portions of the\
universe, common or uncommon processes.\
\
I would clearly underline that essentially the whole of physics,\
whether you like it or not, is actually building models all the time.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs19 \cf2 I\'92m prepared to use the word \'93theory\'94 for the most accurate descriptions\
we have of reality which we may even believe are true.\
To me a theory makes grander claims than a model. The theory\
claims to be the way things work. And if they don\'92t work that way,\
the theory is wrong.\
\
I think theory is . . . somehow at a higher level than a model, I\
would think. It\'92s a more meta-level. The model is kind of below.\
It\'92s some kind of reflection of theory. It can incorporate theory.\
To construct a model you can draw on a theory and apply it\
to specific circumstances.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs18 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs19 \cf2 Ultimately in physics, fundamental or universal rules are, for example,\
Maxwell\'92s equations, fluid equations, cross sections that\
come from particle physics, all, I mean, fundamental, physical laws\
of nature.\
Fundamentals are what you can\'92t argue with.\
There is nothing more fundamental that these fundamental\
rules are understood in terms of.\
What a good model will do is select a small plausible subset\
of all these fundamentals and give you insight into how that subset\
conspires to produce the phenomena you have observed.\
\
There is no, in my mind, no real linguistic significance to the distinction\
between theory and model.}